## Summary

A series of reports analyzing the *Microsoft’s AdventureWorks* database. The reports are generated by leveraging SQL and Python within Jupyter Notebooks. 

## Description & Requirements

SQL Server and Azure Data Studio were used to conduct the analysis of *AdventureWorks2019.bak* database.
I worked with Juputer Notebooks via PyCharm IDE. 

In order to connect to the SQL Server database, the `pyodbc` module needs to be imported and the following credentials needs to be specified: 

`conn = pyodbc.connect('DRIVER={SQL Server};'  
                      'SERVER=server_name;'  
                      'DATABASE=database_name;'  
                      'UID=user_ID;'  
                      'PWD=Password;')`  
`cursor = conn.cursor()`


It is recommended to pass the credentials via `.env` file to keep them secure.


#### Passing credentials via environment variables

1. Create `credentials.env` file containing the variables described above (DRIVER, SERVER, DATABASE, UID, PWD)
2. Add `credentials.env` to `.gitignore` to keep the information secure.


## Reports 

**inventory_report.ipynb** retrieves the information about:
- products which stocks are running low;
- products and their respective locations where the safety stock level falls below or equal to the number of available units;
- products without any orders.

**customer_demographics_overview.ipynb** provides a demographic analysis of AdventureWorks customers:
- customers gender overview;
- marital status overview; 
- number of kids in the household;
- customers yearly income;
- evaluation of the home ownership among customers.

**product_performance.ipynb** evaluates the following ares of products performance:
- top 10 products with the highest revenue;
- products that were returned by customers and the respective revenue lost;
- products which are sold for a price 30% and lower than the product’s actual price.

**invoice_report.ipynb** retrieves the following customer orders information:
- customer orders, store names and addresses and the total due;
- store names, salespeople names and their contact information;
- availability of sales quota for salespeople.



*This project is a work in progress, thus more insights on AdventureWorks database analysis will be added shortly.*
